# M2_Building-Management-System

ABSTRACT:

The system supports various sensor and its functionality with a very practical and convenient cost system configuration. In various ways, the design and implementation of BMS (Building management system) and fulfilment of many type of green project today, but it uses technology to provide for a superior space. With the help of these system we reduces the human effort. The key features of our project is to opening and closing gate via servo motor module, common area lighting, door opening and closing with the help of keypad and fire detection and alert to main system. All the hardware sensor and components are put into a best demonstration model with the motive of the test of the system and presentation in real-time. With the help of these model, the smart BMS environment is animated and correlated function becomes simple understood. BMS is reliable circuit that takes over the task of controlling various system used in it.
As rising concept, building automation integrates many applications which can support different usages. For example; a servo motor can be used to control the door; on the other hand it is suitable for pet feeding. Similarly, all domestic activities can be adapted to automation concept by the help of facilitating the electronic components.
The remote access renders it more practical and useful in the home environment. When all of hardware based services and user friendly interface are combined in a system, the rise of building automation system is inevitable. For such combination, security is a significant issue. As an exemplary solution of this problem, in our system, motion sensors and door controls are utilized in order to get information about unusual activities like a burglar at home. Moreover; gas, smoke and fire sensors give constant information about extraordinary situations and raise alarm. Hence; a home accident and maybe massive disaster can be prevented. Due to all of these reasons, building automation systems are favorable and feasible in terms of answering to user requirements.




INTRODUCTION:

In today’s world, there is a persistent requirement for automated appliances. With the expansion in the way of life, there is a sense of urgency for creating circuits that would facilitate the complexity of life. While planning an intelligent building, a Building service engineer, an Architect & Hardware Engineer is required, but in the case of the ordinary building, a Building service engineer and an Architect are enough. For many years, buildings that offer comfortable, a flexible and energy efficient living environment at a minimal cost has been the expectation of building owners and occupiers. To achieve this goal, a variety of advanced building technologies have been developed in the past two decades, aiming to improve the building performance to satisfy a variety of human needs and environmental sustainability. Building automation frameworks are the smart systems that include a combination of suitable software and hardware which are utilized for automation of computer systems. These system ease usage of important functions such as gate opening, door opening, lighting, fire extinction, and security. Some building automation systems can also provide an emergency alert service. However, current building applications have a some common problem, such as comprehensive functions operate in isolation, can’t be managed in overall fashion although overall management’s tremendous potential in future applications. 
European Union supported Building as a Service (BaaS) project deals with this various problem which aims to provide a comprehensive software platform for present and future commercial building management and building innovation, with flexible and cost-efficient integration of mentioned services, an overall management idea is targeted. As a rising idea, building automation coordinates numerous applications which can support different usages. For instance; a dc motor engine can be utilized to control the gate and door; on the other hand, this work has been supported by 9140003 ITEA BaaS/Tubitak. it is appropriate for pet sustaining. Essentially, all household exercises can be adjusted to the computerization idea by the assistance of encouraging the electronic component. The remote access renders it progressively down to earth and valuable in the home condition. At the point when the majority of the equipment based administrations and easy to use interface are joined in a framework, the ascent of building computerization framework is inescapable. For such a blend, security is a huge issue.
The main aim of the system is that it utilizes the RFID framework which is the eventual fate of electronic correspondence. Here we likewise supplant the microcontrollers prior utilized, which is a mini processor that is both a microcontroller just as a server. The vehicle that should be approved is given a RFID tag with an exceptional number. Presently when the vehicle comes to close to the door RFID tag peruses the code, and send a flag to raspberry pi which checks for the relating subtleties of the one of a kind number and on the off chance that it matches with the spared information in the database, at that point it again makes an impression on the engine which opens the entryway. 
 As a commendable arrangement of this issue, in our framework, motion sensor i.e., IR sensors and entryway controls are used so as to get data about strange exercises like a robber at home. In addition; gas, smoke and flame sensors give steady data about exceptional circumstances and raise caution. In this project, building automation system is developed by composing circuit that involves smart home functionalities which connected with sensors which are controlled by an Android based application. The fundamental controls like lights, door, gate, fire and gas alarms are all included in this project. However, system’s functionality is display in real-time by an unique developed demonstration model which shows system properties clearly and possible benefits of smart building automation system in a modeled home environment.


GOALS:
The main goals of our system is, Central controlling facility Automate and take control of various operations, manages all the systems which coordinates various systems to provide a comfortable working environment in an efficient way. To provide a best facility in building area and reduces the human effort.

OBJECTIVE:
The main objective of our system is to provide building automation in building area like opening and closing gate via RFID card, smart common area lighting depends on object motion or human motion, smart door lock system using keypad as well as fire detection and alert to main system etc.

PURPOSE:
Behind choosing this project, automated central control system in all modern big buildings is very important and necessary for the qualitative improvement of the working conditions as well as rational energy distribution. All buildings system have some form of mechanical and electrical system in order to provide the functional necessary for maintaining exact working environment.
